Leonardo da Vinci was born 15 April 1452 in a town called Anchiano in Italy. 1466 when he was 14, he started off as an apprentice to Andrea Del Verrocchio. He was under Verrocchio’s teaching until 1478 when he moved away from his father’s home. Right after leaving Verrocchio, he got two commissions to draw an altar painting and a painting of the three wise men. Leonardo was a perfectionist and a hard critic to himself and after not liking the art style, he left both of the paintings unfinished and left to create other art pieces of his liking.
In 1482 he started to work for the duke Milano, Ludovico Sforza as a hoof painter, sculptor, architect and army engineer. He worked for the Sforza family until 1499 when the French army occupied and captured Milano. Some of the artwork he made for Milano, was destroyed by the French army when occupying Milano.
After the Milano incident, he went to Venice for a short amount of time where his army engineer knowledge and experience came to use. He helped come up with concepts and design different military weapons and useful gadgets. He had a lot of concepts like the military tank and a flying machine. He left Venice shortly after in 1500 and moved to Florins to continue taking commissions and drawing. He stayed in Florins until 1508. Under his time in Florins, he drew many famous paintings and inventions. But one of the most famous ones was probably Mona Lisa which was drawn between 1503 and 1506.
His last 10 years he spent traveling around working for kings and other wealthy people. 1513 he went with his apprentice to Rome gain the Pope Leo X: s favor and trust to work under him. But left early as 1517 because he was requested to work for the king of France Frans I. He spent his last days under the king of France and passed away in 1519 May 2 in the castle Clos luse.
His art was beloved in France and by most people. Even 500 years after his death, his art is still famous and well-known. It’s seen as the pinnacle of art at this time.
